Today he/ she took us on a emotional journey with a very entertaning, revelant and informative message and most importantly it was fun. 

It's kind of emotional groove. My ears where perked, my eye where peeled and I was sitting on the front edge of the chair through out the last 5 minutes. Let see how she faired on this platform.

Contest Master, fellow Toastmaster, Honored guests, all those good looking judges and most importantly our Target Speakers Mr. David Hampton. 

what I love the most about his speech the first thing it's the way you bring the characters to life when you were. The story that has a power to transport people to another place.”

– J.K. Rowling, novelist, screenwriter and film producer

What i like the upmost is the story to covey the message
there are speakers who speak to our mind we remember them but there are speakers who speak to a
heart and they change our thoughts, our feeling, mindset. This is exactly what happened to me.

David used a personal story to stir me up to change my life with a message that is relevant not only to me to everyone in this room.

best stories are the ones that are not just heard that are not just seen but are truly experienced and my dear target speaker you did not just make me hear or see what you did over your onstage you made me experience it and feel it like no other.

you created vivid imagery

Poise on the stage, poise with the body language and poise with stage presence.

Use white space. Pause for dramatic effect. 
It's kind of double wammy

Use pauses to compose yourself and your next thoughts. Sometimes, one can lose track of their train of thought or the next point in the presentation. A small pause can help you regather your thoughts and keep you on track.

Pauses give the audience time to digest and think about what you said.  When you pause, you give your audience a chance to take in what you've just said. This helps them feel engaged in the conversation and more likely to remember what you say.

Speak slowly. It is almost impossible to speak too slowly. You are most likely speaking too fast. Think about listening to a voicemail and trying to extract all of the information. You end up replaying the recording many times to understand all the details. Speaking in front of an audience is not the same as having a conversation in the office, on the phone, or at the kitchen table. Everybody does not process information at the same rate and the presenter must conform to the lowest common denominator.
Do not stand still. If possible, do not stand in one location for the entire presentation. Speak for a slide or a couple points and then move to another part of the stage. Do not be on the move continuously, but do not be stuck in a flowerpot either. Find a happy medium. The exception to this is when there is a podium with the microphone attached to it restricting your mobility.

Use your hands and arms. Make gestures for effect. Standing with your hands permanently at your side or crossed in front or behind you makes for a monotone look. A monotone look has the same boring effect as a monotone voice. The audience will lose interest in looking at you and lose interest in what you are saying as a result.

When you get in front of your audience, identify 3-6 people in the audience depending on the crowd size. Make sure you pick someone on the left, middle and right. They should be towards the back so you are not looking down. If the room is deep, make sure you pick someone towards the middle as well as the back. Think about how baseball players are positioned on the field. You are standing where the batter is. Pick people that you think are interested and you can single out.

As you deliver your presentation, with each point, move your head and eyes from person to person. Pretend you are speaking directly to them. All the rest of the audience notices is the fact that you are looking towards their section, and for all they know, they think you are speaking directly to them.

Extremely good eye contact, laughing eyes, Eye contact Able to maintain eye contact with audience throughout, sweeping the room like lighthouse from left to right
She spoke very passionately and eloquently

favorite thing, the use of vocabalory, very rich descriptive words

Vocal vairty, the high and lows, the speeding and slowing down, add to the emotions
The speech and so well practiced and to me it looks almost like it is mechanical and clinical, you know what where to stand and what to says, but i like to see some humananess, fully in the character, be in the character, so that wvery body andd see and fell that. everybody can see the human side, everybody feel the expression, everbody story meant to them and felt to them. Finally to rap this up

call to action

I know what the story and i wondering when the reveals comes and in the end it come indeed i was expecting 
it was a great theme and i felt it throughout very good
and here the thing Ryan, and the problem with praise we don't learn from praise, so I'm going to give you some critical evaluative feedback but when we get feedback / suggestion that what it matter and that's how we grow
I'm going to help you build your potential giving you some suggestion and see how they land
In my minds eyes


Sticking to one idea

I know what the story and i wondering when the reveals comes and in the end it come indeed i was expecting 
it was a great theme and i felt it throughout very good
and here the thing Ryan, and the problem with praise we don't learn from praise, so I'm going to give you some critical evaluative feedback but when we get feedback / suggestion that what it matter and that's how we grow
I'm going to help you build your potential giving you some suggestion and see how they land
In my minds eyes


he command the stage

I'm stealing his thunder
you slide that audience in your pocket
what do you want to hear, we want to hear about us through Alan speech
What i like about, he bring the laugh, you bring the inspiration, he bring the charasmatic vibe in the room
So delightful to listen and it is quite difficult to find out something that makes it even better if
what if Alan can come closer little closer and spoken right to the audience somebody in their eyes
What really if he replaced the ums and ahhs and . Take out those Ams and Uhs and start by sentence, you really have somebody ears i loved
Something i noticed very difficlut to figure out how to include you, you and not be pacing back and forth
Staging , purposefull. close out talk, come centre

inspiration moment for it to be another triad overwhelmed, overworked, 
read by brain and so i really take that
Glowing with pride 
Warmth speech
Great imagery
dramatic moment
That brings me to recommendation

Engaging and re-engaging the audience is key, and injections of humour will punctuate the speech and re-focus the listeners' attention

Imagery that was created 
That the sign of a great speaker
Gesture complimented her words
Voice was gentle and smooth, drew an audience
Ending always comes with impactful point because what last it last your audience - maximum impacts

Springs to my mind
relatable analogies and his insane curiosity for deep conversations
for his drive and clarity.

Warmth in his speech

Gravitas
Body language

All of us hooked; Keeping us engaged; Well structure and finish with powerful message
Paint the picture

Good storytelling can be used anywhere - from boardrooms to bathrooms

Storytelling captives their audience, have a powerful and universal appeal

Power full consultation circulting back to the little girls
Spoke with passion and told her moving stories

Fascinating content, Like the correlation

the first question that peaked our interest was

Very power message that brought audnece to its feet

A pause can mean you want the thought to stick and is a key point of your talk. 

After delivering a subset of points, make sure you give the audience time to think about what you said. A pause before moving to the next slide is very beneficial. If you ask a rhetorical question, give them real time to think about possible answers before you deliver them yourself. There are many reasons to use white space and you should leverage them all.

Do not use filler. Umm, eh, uh, ah, err, and any other verbal noise that is not a word and does not contribute to the presentation goals is undesired. If what you vocalize does not add value to the delivery, do not utter it. Replace the filler noise with white space. Turn the frown upside down and make the gap a delivery tool.

Pacing paces back and forth to much. Attempt to connect with the different parts of the audience or both. 
But on several, I thought that he could have slowed down and paused and let us digest. Infact he speaks but fast 

Eye contact makes your listeners feel they see you. Genuine eye contact works two ways. When you open yourself and look somebody in the eyes, they look back into you.

There is a reason eyes are called the window to the soul. Eyes convey what is going on inside. It is difficult to fake that. When you connect to more and more individuals in your audience, the feeling that you are all together in the world of the story grows. Eye contact helps you to stay in the here and now
When you look into the eyes of your listeners, you tune out distractions. External distractions like sounds, movement, lights. Internal distractions like fear, nerves, and your inner critic.


A powerful speech ending line helps you recapture the essence of your speech:

Bit of Drama
Structure of the content
Gently and light hearted topic
Change of tone
Sticking to one idea



Making speech flavours, Sprinkling your speech with flavours

 for prolonged applause on more than one occasation.
Vibrant and expressive personality

Springs to my mind
relatable analogies and his insane curiosity for deep conversations
for his drive and clarity.












Preparing the story
When building a presentation, like any good movie or story, there is a beginning, middle, and an end.

Beginning
Lay down the groundwork to tell the story. Set the stage. Establish a setting and stage for everyone for consistency and understanding. Use data and environmentals to support the setting you are trying to establish. Make sure you and the audience are using the same foundation. It is hard to teach evolution to a creationist.

Middle
Tell the story. Engage the audience. This is the main part of the presentation where you deliver your story and underlying message.

Look to the fables and fairy tales as examples of how a story engages the audience but delivers an important and well-defined message.

There is a lot going on in your head. The audience does not notice most of this. That misstep or gap is not noticed because the audience does not know what the script looked like beforehand. If you lose your train of thought, create a little white space, pause for 3-5 seconds, and gather yourself. The audience will not even notice the gap.

The marketplace has repeatedly shown us that it is not always the content or product that makes a success story. No matter whether the content is good or bad, a successful pitch and delivery is necessary for it to succeed.

Use this advice to know your content, use proper delivery methods, reduce mental nervousness and stress, and incorporate your audience to become a better speaker and presenter for any and all situations. I hope that what I have learned to work over the years will benefit your presentation delivery growth.

Think about receiving a parcel. I have one coming today and I’m looking forward to receiving it. The delivery is crucial – it doesn’t matter what the contents are. If the delivery fails the whole thing is irrelevant. It’s exactly the same with presenting. If the delivery is poor, it doesn’t really matter about the content. Most people spend the majority of their preparation time working on content, and that’s really important. But what is more important is how you’re going to deliver the content. How you’re going to package it. The best content in the world, delivered poorly, will never have the impact it deserves. Think about an actor – any actor. They spend a lot of time learning their lines. That’s the content. But they spend even more time learning and practising how to say the lines. That’s the delivery. Great presentations take time to prepare. Sure, some people are great at spontaneous speaking or off the cuff speaking, but most people have to work at it. The biggest trap they can fall into is working on content and ignoring delivery, or spending minimal time on delivery. Next time you have a presentation to make, think like an actor. Prepare your content, then work on your delivery. It’s like Uber Eats. The best meal has no taste if the delivery fails.

In good vocal technique, well-balanced breathing is especially important to maintain great vocal projection.

poise with 

the stage but you have this poise
on stage you have this poise with your
voice
points with your stage position and
poise
with your body language this i'm here



Show that humour has it place even in a scientific presentation. It lightens the mood, keep the energy high and improves the attention and engagement of the auidence

Pacing paces back and forth to much. Attempt to connect with the different parts of the audience or both. 
But on several, I thought that he could have slowed down and paused and let us digest. Infact he speaks but fast 

wonderful 

i think he had lot of material to cover, but it seems on occasion he slowed up when he had to refer to the notes, not having hold his papers would also have allowed him to genture more effectvely 

moving about woudl also have sllaoed to inetrecta moe iwthg people sitoing along he edges of th eautiodiroum

how don not detract fro the fact that thid was a onderful speech delivere dby a speaker who spoke apssional;lity and elot=uently on a topic of great importsance. I foudn iy particlaury moving and i gree wholewhaelys with commong sence apprach to a singanifact proble,

have a clear message
don't use compiacted words when simple ones will do
facial experssion and genustres enhances the effectiness of your words
eye contact us cursial o forming a boind with the audinces
humairo is good
humaour balances with seriosu message is even beter
a call o action - is a powerfula way to end a speech or presettaion



love laura presence, 
I'm not trying to mock anybody
speaking anecdotally
today is a great day, beacause i heard your speech
it was entertaining, informating, relevant and most importantly You made my day or You have made my day? - 
You've got to find what you love
your enthusiam radiating out into your body
knock the socks off your audiences, so here are my suggestions - If something knocks your socks off, you find it extremely exciting or good: I'm going to take you to a restaurant that'll knock your socks off. 
existing the stage you started speaking let her exit the stage.
let audience settle down
let all eyes come upon on you
fantastic use of humour, pauses, very balanced and well times and so that we can all enjoy the punch line, beause you setup some great punchlines
Extremely good. admirable.
great timelines
clearly woven logical story
i felt it
we all can feel the heat in the sweat
staging, we got a wide space, people over here and people her are equally important as the audinces all like to be charged, respected, engaged and enveloped in the speech, it's body movement and eye contact
story telling speech is a everyday occuernce of all us, we all can releate them
riddles with jargons, but that was not
In summary a clearly woven story one we could all relate you
intensive charging and engaging us taking us into the drama of that first momment so we could feel the sweat
Today was a good day beacause i heard
i noticed the speed of delivery of speech, i think you speed was around 140 & 150 words minute, bring it downa  bit so that we can take it in
the connection was missing, 
the message was
your animated voice, 
natural story teller that makes listening to you enjoyable
use of humour spot on
I know what the story and i wondering when the reveals comes and in the end it come indeed i was expecting 
it was a great theme and i felt it throughout very good
and here the thing Ryan, and the problem with praise we don't learn from praise, so I'm going to give you some critical evaluative feedback but when we get feedback / suggestion that what it matter and that's how we grow
I'm going to help you build your potential giving you some suggestion and see how they land
watch your wisher, you want to do stage whisper, give your whisper more volume
so that the skill and talen that you can work on
arm posters / changing up your arm posture you need to think about other places to put in
she took her time in expressing every single word
very well balaced timely pause, what pause does, it relates that idea to our own lives and built greater connnection
she illustrated her stories well 
build authencity and her story are natural and real that we all can relate.
voice are very smooth and it is lovely to listen
pace of the speech is pretty much the same
emphasising the message
given the impact
keep your hand open on the side way, more broad hand gestures
pointing the audience by fingers, but hand out like this if you like to refer the individual woud be very less intrusive but more polite
exceptionally good speech
if you can make small adjustment like 
there are speaker who speak to your mind and there are speaker who speaks to your heart that changed the life
personal story to stir me up to change my life with a message that is relevant not only
vivid imagery
realise your story
and your stage crafting
only long story, which lose audience attention, tackel thorough
creafully placed humur aswell
playing humour very intellgently, playing the words very intelligently
vocal variation
that life changing message, 
collect the memories
your might be surpised there are lots of praise, but we are here in TM this is a place to learn with a change to grow
moderation
caught n a mouse trap
beautiful emotional roller coaster of a story
gripped with lots of hearts with vivid imagery and intelligent humour and mindful about the moderation like 
foot on the peddle
tea pot style
beyong my comprehension
lowlife
stretch of my imagniation
loss to understand
pls show some class

A piece of work that you can get your teeth into is one that requires you to work hard and use your skill and energy, in a way that is satisfying

thick and thin - under all circumstances, no matter how difficult.
"they stuck together through thick and thin"

they both got the teeth into the job - to become fully involved in (something, such as a new activity) : to do or deal with (something) with a lot of energy, interest, etc. He finally has a project he can get his teeth into.

to discover something by searching carefully: He soon nosed out the details of the accident by talking to people and making some phone calls

Good storytelling can be used anywhere - from boardrooms to bathrooms

Storytelling captives their audience, have a powerful and universal appeal

Getting into the skin of the character

build courage to come out - it is very difficult not to get scared, not to be daunted, bright eyes and twinkling eyes

Imagery that was created 
That the sign of a great speaker
Gesture complimented her words
Voice was gentle and smooth, drew an audience
Ending always comes with impactful point because what last it last your audience - maximum impacts
She speaks at a pace that is easy to follow. She enunicates her words and use pauses effectively to emphasise a point or to signal a transition in the speech
Speak with clarity
Great pace
Retrofit
started by saying he got 3 interesting
which drews us into his speech
finally he summaris them
clear begininng, middle and ending
what that did it made the speech easy to follow
he interwine each of these speech content
it made it unique
love his gesture
range of gesture
some quite big one and some small one
what i most like is his tips breathing
alan know his audience very well
he got a grip on his speech
loud and striking voice
make it softer tones to draw us in
slow things down and lower his voice and paused like 
more impact full and draw us in and made us think more what you said

2nd point of improvement to do with the structure well the end rather 
very captivating and brilliant

would nice to create a good end by creating a loop
would you like to have some purpose
some grip on your self

end like that by summarising his points by captiving manner by creating that loop i think his speech can become compelling and call to action even more clear

overall this was an scintillating speech i love the gesture, the voice, the value 
if you make those adjustments in your

How to make emotion connection with her audience
always love it when you been aksed to evaluate a very experinced and charamtics, very experinced public speaker

he command the stage
i'm stealing his thunder
you slide that audience in your pocket
what do you want to hear, we want to hear about us through Alan speech
What i like about, he bring the laugh, you bring the inspiration, he bring the charamtic vibe in the room
So delightful to listen and it is quite diffulut to find out something that makes it even better if
what if Alan can come closer little closer and spoken right to the audience somebody in their eyes
What really if he replaced the ums and ahhs and . Take out those Ams and Uhs and start by sentence, you really have somebody ears i loved
Something i noticed very difficlut to figure out how to include you, you and not be pacing back and forth
Staging , purposefull. close out talk, come centre

inspiration moment for it to be another triad overwhelmed, overworked, 
read by brain and so i really take that
Glowing with pride 
Warmth speech
Great imagery
dramatic moment
That brings me to recommendation
Bit of Drama
Structure of the content
Gently and light hearted topic
Change of tone

Springs to my mind
relatable analogies and his insane curiosity for deep conversations
for his drive and clarity.

Sticking to one idea

Warmth in his speech

Gravitas
Body language

All of us hooked; Keeping us engaged; Well structure and finish with powerful message

Speech structure concise
With lot of gustos
Little bit more
Very rousing

Paint the picture
Thinking on the toss
Making speech flavours, Sprinkling your speech with flavours

He would have smashed it

Repetition

Some thing missing
Self deprecating
Very thoughtful and insightful
Start engaging

Commenting on How they said it 

Glance on the audience 
Great expression
Laughing eyes
Aura around

3 parts of Not showed but Demonstrated and 
Deserved the full 3 minutes

Now is the time for grumbling: trembling

Kept moving and ended abruptly 

Witty comment

Very engaging and conversationally style

Symbolic and metaphor
Lively and thorough description

Bit poetic

Bare bones speech and content

Slow puncture analogy 

Outweighed the benefits

Cakism or cherry picking 

It’s easy to get carried away with all the bells and whistles you can add to your dashboard

High debt can be dangerous. 
 
And there may be some twists left in the tale yet.

There’s no such thing as a successful unicorn

Stories are more powerful than statistics, because they’re easier to understand and contextualize to your own life. The person who tells the most compelling story wins. Not who has the best idea, or the right answer. Just whoever tells a story that catches people’s attention and gets them to nod their heads.

baseline necessity

Now, you might think that the ability to narrate incident stories is a God-given one – you either have it or you don’t. But reading Paul’s books gives you the clarity and confidence that this is very much a learnable skill

how he used a mix of thinking clarity, determination and sheer hard-work to pivot his career from the corporate world to the world of storytelling

telling his findings upfront, he took the audience on a discovery journey and tapped into their curiosity

Fascinating content, Like the correlation

the first question that peaked our interest was

Very power message that brought audnece to its feet for prolonged applause on more than one occasation.
Vibrant and expressive personality

Purposefull movement would help to conect with audeince and audeince interest and interact with them closely
I fely the speech very natural and conversational, Grabbed the audenice attention from the start. When you begin a speech, you only have a few momnets to hook the audience attention. So you want to make those moment count. People tends do remember the first and last things they hear. So the opening and closing of your presentation are importants.

She neatly concludes the story that began. 
Circularity is a powerful things in a speech.
Good pace to her voice, with many pauses. She also know who to quicken your pace, when approriate, such as 

Marvellous eye contact bright eyes and twinkling eyes. Extremely good eye contact, laughing eyes, Eye contact Able to maintain eye contact with audience throughout, sweeping the room like lighthouse from left to right
She spoke very passionately and eloquently

Power full consultation circulting back to the little girls
Spoke with passion and told her moving stories